docs: Add `HTTP headers` guide (#1957)
apify/crawlee-python: docs/guides/http_headers.mdx

---
id: http-headers
title: HTTP headers
description: Learn how HTTP headers work in web scraping and how to work with them in Crawlee.
---

import ApiLink from '@site/src/components/ApiLink';
import RunnableCodeBlock from '@site/src/components/RunnableCodeBlock';

import SetHeadersExample from '!!raw-loader!roa-loader!./code_examples/http_headers/set_headers.py';

Every request a crawler sends includes [HTTP headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers). These headers tell the server who is making the request, what content is acceptable, and in what language. The server reads them and decides what to return. The same URL can return different content, a different status code, or a blocked page depending on the headers it sees. This guide covers the headers that shape a scraping request, like `User-Agent`, `Accept-Language`, and `Content-Type`, what Crawlee sends by default, and how to change them.

## What headers do

> Headers are key-value metadata attached to a request. Some of them shape what you get back. Others identify you or carry state. The ones that matter most for scraping are below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Headers are key-value metadata attached to a request. Some of them shape what you get back. Others identify you or carry state.
```
Fluff :D

### Identity headers

> `User-Agent` identifies the client. Many sites serve different markup to a browser than to a crawler. Some reject requests whose `User-Agent` doesn't look like a real browser. It's one of the first signals a server reads, though not the only one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`User-Agent` identifies the client. Many sites serve different markup to a browser than to a crawler. Some reject requests whose `User-Agent` doesn't look like a real browser. It's one of the first signals a server reads.
```

> `User-Agent` identifies the client. Many sites serve different markup to a browser than to a crawler. Some reject requests whose `User-Agent` doesn't look like a real browser. It is one of the basic headers a server uses to identify the client, though not the only one.

Reviewer 2: Doc writing style: Prefer a contraction.

```suggestion
`User-Agent` identifies the client. Many sites serve different markup to a browser than to a crawler. Some reject requests whose `User-Agent` doesn't look like a real browser. It's one of the basic headers a server uses to identify the client, though not the only one.
```

`Referer` says which page the request came from. Some sites gate content, images, or API responses behind an expected `Referer`. A direct request with no `Referer`, or the wrong one, gets a different answer than a click from inside the site.

### Content negotiation

> These headers tell the server what the client can handle. The server uses them to pick what to send.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These headers tell the server what the client can handle and the server uses them to pick what to send:
```
I'd also turn what follows into bullets.

`Accept` lists the formats the client wants. The same endpoint can return HTML to one `Accept` and JSON to another. If you need data from an API, try setting it to `application/json` to get JSON instead of a rendered page.

> `Accept-Language` lists the languages the client prefers, in priority order. It is a preference, not a switch. A server honors it only for content it actually serves in more than one language, and ignores it otherwise. Where it applies, it changes translated text, date and number formats, and sometimes currency. Set it to match the locale you expect, then confirm from the response that the server applied it.

Reviewer 2: Doc writing style: Prefer a contraction.

```suggestion
`Accept-Language` lists the languages the client prefers, in priority order. It's a preference, not a switch. A server honors it only for content it actually serves in more than one language, and ignores it otherwise. Where it applies, it changes translated text, date and number formats, and sometimes currency. Set it to match the locale you expect, then confirm from the response that the server applied it.
```

### Non-standard headers

A server can read any header it wants, not only the standard ones. AJAX endpoints often expect `X-Requested-With: XMLHttpRequest`. A site can require a custom `X-Api-Key` or `X-CSRF-Token`. A mobile app's backend usually expects its own set, such as an app version in `X-App-Version`, a device id in `X-Device-Id`, or a token the app attaches itself. There is no fixed list. When a request works in a browser or an app but fails from a crawler, capture the full set of headers the original sends and look for one you're missing.

### Headers don't guarantee a result

A header is a request, not a command. The server decides what to do with it. It can ignore a header entirely, so a value you set has no effect on the response. It can reject a value it doesn't accept and answer with an error. And some headers only take effect in combination with others. Setting a header is the first step. Confirm from the response that it did what you expected.

## Default headers in Crawlee

> All built-in HTTP clients impersonate a browser by default. Instead of a bare library `User-Agent` like `python-httpx/0.27`, they send a realistic set of browser-like headers: a browser `User-Agent`, an `Accept`, an `Accept-Language`, and client hints where the client supports them. This makes a crawl look like normal browser traffic and avoids the simplest forms of blocking.

Reviewer 2: Doc writing style: The sentence opens with a bare "This" as the subject — give it a noun (the verb then agrees as "avoid").

```suggestion
All built-in HTTP clients impersonate a browser by default. Instead of a bare library `User-Agent` like `python-httpx/0.27`, they send a realistic set of browser-like headers: a browser `User-Agent`, an `Accept`, an `Accept-Language`, and client hints where the client supports them. Such headers make a crawl look like normal browser traffic and avoid the simplest forms of blocking.
```

The example below sets `X-Api-Key` on the client and `Accept` on one of two requests to an echo endpoint. The client header reaches both requests, and the per-request `Accept` is added only to the request that sets it. Impersonation stays on, so the echo also returns the full browser header set, with the request's `Accept` in place of the impersonated one:

<RunnableCodeBlock className="language-python" language="python">
    {SetHeadersExample}
</RunnableCodeBlock>

<ApiLink to="class/HttpxHttpClient">`HttpxHttpClient`</ApiLink> and <ApiLink to="class/CurlImpersonateHttpClient">`CurlImpersonateHttpClient`</ApiLink> take the same `headers` argument.

Header names are case insensitive, and <ApiLink to="class/HttpHeaders">`HttpHeaders`</ApiLink> normalizes the casing for you, so `user-agent` and `User-Agent` refer to the same header.

## Header order and fingerprinting

Anti-bot systems look at more than header values. They look at which headers are present, their casing, and the order they arrive in. Real browsers send a consistent, recognizable set. A request that has a browser `User-Agent` but the wrong header order, or missing client hints, still looks automated.

> This is why `ImpitHttpClient` and `CurlImpersonateHttpClient` replicate the browser at the transport layer rather than just attaching headers. Setting a browser `User-Agent` on a plain client is not enough to pass these checks. If a target uses fingerprinting, prefer an impersonating client over hand-set headers.

Reviewer 2: Doc writing style: Replace the bare "This" opener with a noun, and contract "is not" → "isn't".

```suggestion
This fingerprinting is why `ImpitHttpClient` and `CurlImpersonateHttpClient` replicate the browser at the transport layer rather than just attaching headers. Setting a browser `User-Agent` on a plain client isn't enough to pass these checks. If a target uses fingerprinting, prefer an impersonating client over hand-set headers.
```
